Slide 2
All of us remember the physical isolation of covid, the masks, the social distancing - but those of us who were still in school may have felt it more.
In the face of the pandemic, some 77% of US public schools and 73% of US private schools reported moving some or all of their classes to 
distance learning formats in 2020, according to statistics by the NCES. 
This is a MAJORITY of children who have spent some of their formative years in the online classroom, perhaps struggling with the technology or missing their friends, or both.
Although COVID is over, its apparent the online classroom is here to stay.


Slide 3
Even in the wake of the pandemic, many students have remained remote. These tables from Phil Hill show postsecondary enrollment by learning type: 
as you can see, a combined 54.3% of college students have at least some portion of their learning as remote, outnumbering those who learn fully in-person by 8.6%.
With so much of the world's learning remaining online, we require the tools necessary to bolster this distanced learning, 
and this is the problem learning analytics seeks to solve.


Slide 4
Learning analytics is the application of statistical and machine learning techniques on data gathered in online classrooms to find useful insights. 
Learning analytics can help us shore up some of the weaknesses of online learning, namely the difficulty in gauging engagement and performance from afar.
We could personalize education by calculating overall progress of a student in a course or unit, 
focus areas for difficult sections, 
learning styles of a student, 
teaching styles of a teacher,
or even estimations of time needed for remaining assignments, tailored for each student. 
Institutions could even use these analytics to better allocate resources across departments.


Slide 5
Other examples of analytics regard predicting student performance. 
This can be used to better identify students who may be struggling in certain areas, and allowing faculty to intervene and help before its too late. 
This sort of predictive analytics is where this project is focused. Student performance was predicted by analyzing their study hours and previous exam performances
and the results were quite good.


Slide 6
One training dataset and one testing dataset were provided by Kaggle and imported into R. These are provided in the repository. 
As is visible in the code excerpt, checking the structure of the datasets shows two continuous variables, study hours and previous exam score,
and our binary response variable, Pass/Fail. 
After factorizing the response variable, a count-plot was made showing the number of passing students to be 184, and failing students to be 316.


Slide 7
Afterwards, logistic regression was applied to the training data, using Pass/Fail as our response, and our other two variables as predictors.
This model was then used to predict pass/fail rates on the test data, and compared to the actual pass/fail rates in a confusion matrix.
This confusion matrix outputs several different performance metrics, the foremost of which is accuracy, which turns out to be 86.8%.
Considering our data is balanced, this by itself is a good metric, but our confusion matrix also outputs a precision of 89.3%, a recall of 89.9%, and an F1-Score of 89.6%.
A feature importance plot was also generated, showing that study hours were slightly more important than previous exam performance in this model.


Slide 8
Our second and final method is the random forest. This is an ensemble method combining the output of multiple decision trees - in our case 100.
Similarly to our first method, the random forest was trained on our training data, then formed predictions on the test data.
These predictions were then compared to the actual, and the same metrics were outputted.
In the case of the random forest, all of our metrics turned out to be 100 percent accurate.
Again, our feature importance plot shows study hours to be more important than previous exam performance, but in this case, more significantly.

